README.md, before:

# Kong Helm Charts

This is the official Helm Charts repository for installing Kong on Kubernetes.

## Setup

Add the repo on your machine:

```bash
helm repo add kong https://charts.konghq.com
helm repo update
```

There are two available charts.

`kong/ingress` provides an opinionated ingress controller-managed DB-less
environment. It is the recommended chart for new installations. To use it:

```bash
helm install kong/ingress --generate-name
```

`kong/ingress` is an umbrella chart using two instances of the `kong/kong`
chart with some pre-configured values.yaml settings. The `controller` and
`gateway` subsections support additional settings available in the `kong/kong`
values.yaml.

`kong/kong` is a flexible building block for supporting a wide variety of
environment configurations not supported by `kong/ingress`, such as hybrid mode
or unmanaged (no controller) Kong instances. To use it:

```bash
helm install kong/kong --generate-name
```

For more details about the configuration required to support various
environments, see the "Deployment Options" subsection of the `kong/kong`
documentation's table of contents.

## Documentation

The documentation for Kong's Helm Charts is available on GitHub:

* [kong/ingress](https://github.com/Kong/charts/blob/main/charts/ingress/README.md)
* [kong/kong](https://github.com/Kong/charts/blob/main/charts/kong/README.md)


## Seeking help

If you run into an issue, bug or have a question, please reach out to the Kong
community via [Kong Nation](https://discuss.konghq.com) or open Github
issues in [this](https://github.com/kong/charts/issues) repository.

## Releasing and forking

This repo uses [chart releaser](https://github.com/helm/chart-releaser-action/)
to automatically update a GitHub pages branch containing a Helm repo. When you
[bump the `version` field in
Chart.yaml](https://github.com/Kong/charts/commit/c599f4bc78a0ef73eb3cc8a6b22d881864dc0188#diff-466edb10b903c1c9f9019fd0128824ba889bbe1bdff3da186cf698e3a5703af8)
in one of the charts under `charts/` and merge to main, GitHub Actions will
trigger a release job to generate a GitHub release and add the new release to
the Helm repo:

1. Make a new branch and add a [release commit](https://github.com/Kong/charts/pull/576/commits/aa6e73442e5d32c8af3f4e2f000e439578020996).
   This commit updates the Chart.yaml chart version, finalizes that version's changelog, and optionally adds upgrade instructions.
2. Open a PR to main and merge once approved.
3. Wait for CI to release the new version. Investigate errors if the release job fails.

Forks of this repo can use this release functionality without (much) additional
configuration. Enabling GitHub pages for the `gh-pages` branch will make a Helm
repo with your fork's changes available on your GitHub Pages URL. You can then
use this with:

```
helm repo add kong-fork https://myuser.github.io/charts/
```

Commit message:

chore(docs): mention about manual update of kong/ingress deps (#876)

README.md, after:

# Kong Helm Charts

This is the official Helm Charts repository for installing Kong on Kubernetes.

## Setup

Add the repo on your machine:

```bash
helm repo add kong https://charts.konghq.com
helm repo update
```

There are two available charts.

`kong/ingress` provides an opinionated ingress controller-managed DB-less
environment. It is the recommended chart for new installations. To use it:

```bash
helm install kong/ingress --generate-name
```

`kong/ingress` is an umbrella chart using two instances of the `kong/kong`
chart with some pre-configured values.yaml settings. The `controller` and
`gateway` subsections support additional settings available in the `kong/kong`
values.yaml.

`kong/kong` is a flexible building block for supporting a wide variety of
environment configurations not supported by `kong/ingress`, such as hybrid mode
or unmanaged (no controller) Kong instances. To use it:

```bash
helm install kong/kong --generate-name
```

For more details about the configuration required to support various
environments, see the "Deployment Options" subsection of the `kong/kong`
documentation's table of contents.

## Documentation

The documentation for Kong's Helm Charts is available on GitHub:

* [kong/ingress](https://github.com/Kong/charts/blob/main/charts/ingress/README.md)
* [kong/kong](https://github.com/Kong/charts/blob/main/charts/kong/README.md)

## Seeking help

If you run into an issue, bug or have a question, please reach out to the Kong
community via [Kong Nation](https://discuss.konghq.com) or open Github
issues in [this](https://github.com/kong/charts/issues) repository.

## Releasing and forking

This repo uses [chart releaser](https://github.com/helm/chart-releaser-action/)
to automatically update a GitHub pages branch containing a Helm repo. When you
[bump the `version` field in
Chart.yaml](https://github.com/Kong/charts/commit/c599f4bc78a0ef73eb3cc8a6b22d881864dc0188#diff-466edb10b903c1c9f9019fd0128824ba889bbe1bdff3da186cf698e3a5703af8)
in one of the charts under `charts/` and merge to main, GitHub Actions will
trigger a release job to generate a GitHub release and add the new release to
the Helm repo:

1. Make a new branch and add a [release commit](https://github.com/Kong/charts/pull/576/commits/aa6e73442e5d32c8af3f4e2f000e439578020996).
   This commit updates the Chart.yaml chart version, finalizes that version's changelog, and optionally adds upgrade instructions.
2. Open a PR to main and merge once approved.
3. Wait for CI to release the new version. Investigate errors if the release job fails.

Chart `kong/ingress` uses `kong/kong` as a dependency, so when changes released in `kong/kong` are beneficial for users of `kong/ingress` bump its version `cd charts/ingress && helm dependency update` and prepare a new release of `kong/ingress` as described above.

Forks of this repo can use this release functionality without (much) additional
configuration. Enabling GitHub pages for the `gh-pages` branch will make a Helm
repo with your fork's changes available on your GitHub Pages URL. You can then
use this with:

```sh
helm repo add kong-fork https://myuser.github.io/charts/
```
