charts/kong/example-values/README.md, before:

# Example values.yaml configurations

The YAML files in this directory provide basic example configurations for
common Kong deployment scenarios on Kubernetes. All examples assume Helm 3 and
disable legacy CRD templates (`ingressController.installCRDs: false`; you must
change this value to `true` if you use Helm 2).

* [minimal-kong-controller.yaml](minimal-kong-controller.yaml) installs Kong
  open source with the ingress controller in DB-less mode.

* [minimal-kong-standalone.yaml](minimal-kong-standalone.yaml) installs Kong
  open source and Postgres with no controller.

* [minimal-k4k8s-enterprise.yaml](minimal-k4k8s-enterprise.yaml) installs Kong
  for Kubernetes Enterprise with the ingress controller in DB-less mode.

* [minimal-k4k8s-with-kong-enterprise.yaml](minimal-k4k8s-with-kong-enterprise.yaml)
  installs Kong for Kubernetes with Kong Enterprise with the ingress controller
  and PostgreSQL. It does not enable Enterprise features other than Kong
  Manager, and does not expose it or the Admin API via a TLS-secured ingress.

* [full-k4k8s-with-kong-enterprise.yaml](full-k4k8s-with-kong-enterprise.yaml)
  installs Kong for Kubernetes with Kong Enterprise with the ingress controller
  in PostgreSQL. It enables all Enterprise services.

All Enterprise examples require some level of additional user configuration to
install properly. Read the comments at the top of each file for instructions.

Examples are designed for use with Helm 3, and disable Helm 2 CRD installation.
If you use Helm 2, you will need to enable it:

```
helm install kong/kong -f /path/to/values.yaml \
  --set ingressController.installCRDs=true
```

Commit message:

[kong] add support for hybrid mode
Add basic support for hybrid mode:

* Add a new "cluster" service configuration section, default off.
* Add a new cluster service template.
* Add a new cluster ingress template.
* Update service settings docs in values.yaml to include cluster.
* Add Hybrid Mode section to the deployment guides.
* Add new hybrid mode examples.

charts/kong/example-values/README.md, after:

# Example values.yaml configurations

The YAML files in this directory provide basic example configurations for
common Kong deployment scenarios on Kubernetes. All examples assume Helm 3 and
disable legacy CRD templates (`ingressController.installCRDs: false`; you must
change this value to `true` if you use Helm 2).

* [minimal-kong-controller.yaml](minimal-kong-controller.yaml) installs Kong
  open source with the ingress controller in DB-less mode.

* [minimal-kong-standalone.yaml](minimal-kong-standalone.yaml) installs Kong
  open source and Postgres with no controller.

* [minimal-k4k8s-enterprise.yaml](minimal-k4k8s-enterprise.yaml) installs Kong
  for Kubernetes Enterprise with the ingress controller in DB-less mode.

* [minimal-k4k8s-with-kong-enterprise.yaml](minimal-k4k8s-with-kong-enterprise.yaml)
  installs Kong for Kubernetes with Kong Enterprise with the ingress controller
  and PostgreSQL. It does not enable Enterprise features other than Kong
  Manager, and does not expose it or the Admin API via a TLS-secured ingress.

* [full-k4k8s-with-kong-enterprise.yaml](full-k4k8s-with-kong-enterprise.yaml)
  installs Kong for Kubernetes with Kong Enterprise with the ingress controller
  in PostgreSQL. It enables all Enterprise services.

* [minimal-kong-hybrid-control.yaml](minimal-kong-hybrid-control.yaml) and 
  [minimal-kong-hybrid-data.yaml](minimal-kong-hybrid-data.yaml) install
  separate releases for hybrid mode control and data plane nodes, using
  the built-in PostgreSQL chart on the control plane release. They require
  some pre-work to create certificates and configure the control plane
  location. See comments in the file headers for details. Note that you should
  install the control plane release before the data plane release.

All Enterprise examples require some level of additional user configuration to
install properly. Read the comments at the top of each file for instructions.

Examples are designed for use with Helm 3, and disable Helm 2 CRD installation.
If you use Helm 2, you will need to enable it:

```
helm install kong/kong -f /path/to/values.yaml \
  --set ingressController.installCRDs=true
```
